Well, good morning to everybody.
I know that we, we, uh, may have as
many online today as we have in service.
Um, and so if you're
online welcome as well.
I know we have several families
that again, are traveling.
A couple of them are out because of
some sickness and things like that.
Um, and so, um, we're just, we're a
little bit lighter this morning, but
you know, one of the things I was
going to, I want to start off and talk
to you guys a little bit about this.
Many of you, if not, all of you,
um, have had a church experience
before coming to inspiring hope.
And typically it's a lot bigger than this.
Right.
And some of y'all it's huge.
And so coming and being a part of a
new church, there's always this phase
of newness, which means a lot of like,
you'll have Sundays where there's
like nobody, and then there's Sundays.
There's a lot of people.
And then we're just trying to grow.
And, and so it's like, It's
probably difficult for you guys.
And I understand that.
And, and the reason why I say it's
difficult because it's different,
but different is not always bad.
Right?
I think different can be good because
I think in moments like this, this is
where you'll start actually getting
to know people and what I would even
say this as you get to be a part of
something from the beginning, and when
you get to be a part of something from
the beginning, it becomes almost like
some, I don't know, And so one, again,
everybody in this room has been coming
for at least three or four weeks.
And so even though it's new, I
appreciate you guys hanging around
because there's some people that
can't, because they're just, they can't
handle the small smallness of a church.
And again, if you end up not
staying, that's why you got to
do what God leads you to do.
But what I would just say in this is that.
I encourage you to continue to keep
coming and be a part of it because
you could be a part of growing this
church and reaching more people,
um, and creating something special.
One of the things I, I just, I want
to just mention off-hand, we're going
to get into this in this text today.
Um, but this idea behind community
and relationships and how important
that is, and the more and more that
I talk to individuals in this church,
this is what they say the community
is what's drawn us here, which means.
You know, getting to know each other.
And the smaller group has allowed us
to really just grow together as, as
people and get to know each other.
And so that's really, what's really
the identity behind why we're here.
Um, and so like, I look at that
and I say, you know, let's not take
this for granted and let's continue.
That's why we take the space in
between as the kids transition.
And we take five minutes.
Why?
Because I got to have two great
conversations that I wouldn't
get to have if we're just rushing
through a service to have.
And so, yes, we're a new church and we're
still trying to figure this thing out.
We're still small, but man, you get
to be a part of something that grows
and continues to reach more people,
to invite them into that type of
a community where we get to know
each other and do life together.
And so one just thank you
for being a part of this.
And I know for some of you, again,
still neutral, still trying to
figure out if this is where God's
leading you and that's okay.
Um, you have to be led where God leads.
You just like, God, let us.
Um, and so, um, we're going to be in,
I'm going to go ahead and transition
off that thought we're going to be in
first Timothy chapter one, we're gonna
be finishing up chapter one today.
So we're going to be in verses 18
through 20, only three verses today.
Those three verses are
actually pretty powerful.
So we covering the rest of
chapter one of first Timothy.
And so I want to ask this question,
anybody ever attempted something so
great that if God didn't show up.
There's no way that it
would have been successful.
Anybody attempted anything so
difficult that if God didn't show
up, you knew you would fell anybody.
Okay.
Yes.
No.
Okay.
Some of y'all maybe none of y'all.
My challenge is to try something
like that and, um, I'll kind
of connect some pieces here.
Well, we've started here.
Inspiring hope is very similar to that.
We started something where we had
God, if, if we do this, if you don't
show up this thing's going to fell
and God continues to do that here.
And it reminds me of William Carey,
William Carey made this statement.
He's a great missionary.
Um, it says we need to expect
great things from God, and we need
to attempt to great things from.
We need to expect great
things from God and we need to
attempt great things for God.
And so, as we catch up in this
chapter, um, we're going to really
talk about the power of our calling.
And we're gonna look at how
Paul reminds Timothy that there
is power in remembering his.
So the role in which he's
playing here, uh, in this book.
Um, and, and, and so today what God ends
up inviting us into, and I'm just going
to kind of give you a preview of this,
what God ends up inviting us into is
to do something in our lives, in which
there's no way we would be successful
at doing it unless God shows up.
I don't know about you guys, but I want to
continue to do things in which challenges
me spiritually, because I don't want to
really dishonor God with small thinking.
I want to honor God with big
thinking, which says that God can
do exceedingly abundantly more
than we can ask or think, right.
He, he says that in his word,
he wants to do exceedingly
abundantly more in and through.
And we can think and imagine,
and if that's the God that wants
to do that in us, we now need to
believe that God wants to do that.
And so, as Paul is challenging
Timothy and some tough seasons of
his life and his ministry, he's
reminded him that same thing.
Don't forget that God's called you.
Don't forget that God's placed you here.
Don't forget that God's given
you the ability to be successful.
So as we talk about the power and
our calling, one of the things
you may be asked in this question,
Hey, there's power in our.
One, what is my calling?
That may be one of the questions
you're asking, or maybe the
second question really would be
as, so what's my purpose in life.
So the cool thing here is a church in our
mission statement is we really believe
that we've been called as a church to
help people discover God's purpose for
their life through relationship with
Jesus, which means this, everything
that we're about is helping people.
No Jesus more.
And as they know Jesus more, they begin
to discover that calling or that purpose.
And so it's cool how this
all kind of comes together.
As Paul's talking to Timothy to remember
his call of how we need to be challenged,
to continue to remember our call, right.
And for many of us, right, we have
jobs or we're taking care of kids
at home, or we have activities or
hobbies that we're all a part of.
And so for most of us, that's
not necessarily article.
But it's the place in
which we fulfill our call.
So I'll say that again, our
jobs are taking care of our kids
to our hobbies or activities.
Not, may not necessarily be our call
on like an actually what we're doing,
but the place in which we're doing
those things is the place in which
God's called us to fulfill our call
or given us the ability to do that.
And so we know this though, life sometimes
tough and we wonder how can we do that?
If our jobs difficult or
our kids are diff difficult.
And I know some of your kids are
in the room, so you can't nod
when I say that, okay, I get it.
Um, but we know that God will give
us the power and ability to do that.
So I'm just gonna kind of summarize
chapter one before we jump in.
So we're all kind of caught up.
So in this first chapter of Timothy,
um, so Paul, the apostle, um, is
writing to Timothy, who is the
pastor of this church in emphasis.
Um, and so, so you guys know being a
pastor is not always easy and that's
exactly what Timothy was dealing with.
He's dealing with teachers and people
within the church that are teaching
things contrary to the gospel, not truth.
So as Paul has challenged him in
this first chapter to address these
false teaching, and he says this
to address them with love, right.
And, and to understand
exactly what they're teaching
falsely so that he can tell.
The truth.
And so the first week we talked
about that, our challenge is
to teach the truth, right?
And then last week we talked about
Paul's powerful testimony and how
there's power in our testimonies
power and our testimonies.
And I made this statement that it's only
powerful if we share it, because if not,
It's only good enough for us, meaning
if we don't ever share it, it's only
powerful for us, but really the power is
when we actually share that testimony.
And Paul, we know that because he
shared his testimony, our lives have
changed and many other people's lives
are changed because they heard a pulse.
But this week, we're going to jump into
this where we're Paul turns to Timothy
and he charges him to remember his calling
that was given to him in the power that
it has to help him not give up and to help
him not ship wreck his faith, like some.
So let's jump into this text so we can
all kind of get an idea of where, what,
what, what w what we're talking about.
And then we'll just kind
of walk through it here.
So again, first Timothy chapter
one, verse 18 says this, it says,
Timothy, my son, I'm giving you
this instruction in keeping with the
prophecies previously made about you.
So that by recalling them,
you may fight the good.
Having faith and a good conscience,
some have rejected these and have
shipwrecked their faith among them
are high minibus and Alexander whom
I have delivered to Satan so that
they may be taught not to blasting.
So let's pray, Lord Jesus.
We just thank you Lord for today.
And Lord, we just ask and that you are.
Going to work through this message,
Lord, this you're going to work through
your words to open our hearts, Lord to
how this applies to us, Lord, how we
are reminded of the powerful call that
you've given us to go live our lifestyle.
And so Lord help us, um, today,
um, understand this knowledge
and go out and live it.
And so we just pray this
in your headline name.
So we see in this first verse
and I always love how I kind of
break some of these verses up.
There's so much in one verse, I'll
just break it up into two things.
And so we're going to look at 18 a,
I always love 18, 8, 1800, which is
just the first part of the verse.
And we're gonna look at kind
of just, I'm going to walk
through this text very detailed.
And so hopefully it will make
sense as we walk through this.
But the first thing that sticks out
to me as I walked through this text
and, and, and I'll just kind of step
out here and mention this one thing.
I preach a little bit different
than most people and not that
I'm right and they're wrong.
It's just my personality and who I am.
I typically like to teach or preach
the way in which I understand things,
because for me, I remember sitting
under pastors as a new believer going,
I don't know what that Greek word
is, and that sounds really smart.
And I hope I can figure this out.
And so for me, I'm consistently
trying to think of how can I teach in
such a way that teaches you to eat.
Come up with the same things that I am.
Right.
There's nothing special about me.
You know, I just spend some time studying
the word and, and asking God what it is.
And so when I teach, I kind of almost
invite you to kind of learn alongside me.
Um, and, and so that I'm not
losing you with everything.
And so I'm just going to walk
through this first reverse.
Talk about things that
really just sticks out to me.
And this is this first one, it
says, Timothy, my son, I stop
right there and I go, number one,
Paul considers Timothy, his son.
And while we've heard this before, when
we see back over in, in, uh, uh, the
early part of these verses, um, he calls
him basically his true son in the faith.
This is in verse two, Timothy,
my true son in the faith.
And so Paul really.
Looked at Timothy as his true son.
It wasn't his biological son, but
he had spent so much time with him
that he called him his true son.
So his relationship with Timothy
was so strong and so important
throughout this whole letter.
And so that had to comfort Timothy
as he was receiving instruction.
And so you guys know this when
somebody gives you instruction, you
typically receive it well or not
based upon how much you trust that.
I mean, you guys know
what I'm talking about.
Like you asked for directions and somebody
like, uh, I'm going to tell you where
this is, but they're not from this city.
Like if you asked me the directions
in Hamilton, you probably
shouldn't trust me too much.
I'm still getting used to Hamilton.
I'm usually like go to the convenience
store that I don't know the name and
take a left on the road that I have
no clue where the roundabouts at.
Right.
That's usually how I'm going.
So don't trust me on that.
But this is different for Timothy because
he spent so much time with Paul and
Paul's calling him a true son in the face.
This is something we're like,
Timothy is going to lean in and
say, I I'm going to listen to every
word you say, I'm unbelievable.
Well, I look at the Bible that
way is because the Bible is really
transformed and changed my life.
Whatever the word of God says, I began
to like lean in a little bit more
and say, okay, this is trustworthy.
And so that's kind of the way
that Paul addresses Timothy is
like, Hey, my ch my son, right?
He says, I'm giving you this
instruction and keeping with the
prophecies previously made about.
So as we look in this, as he says,
I'm giving you this instruction
or for some of you, it may be in
this, it says the word charge.
I'm giving you this charge.
Um, and when we look at
this, what instruction.
Is Paul talking to Timothy
about what instruction is
Paul talking to Timothy about?
Well, he's talking about the instruction.
He gave him to address false teaching
with love and what we just talked
about and to also, um, know that
your testimonies can change lives.
Right?
So we know that this instruction that
Paul has given to him, He's been given
it to him, um, to be able to go use,
but then he also says he's given this
to him based upon the call in his life.
And so, as he says this in keeping
with the instructions of the prophecies
previously made about you, that's
an interesting statement, right?
These prophecies were previously made
about Timothy and his call to be in
the role in which he's in all that
really means is there were some people
in the church, this salt Timothy's.
They saw the gift of God on his hand.
And they begin to say, Hey
Timothy, we believe this
position of pastor of emphasis.
And this position of, uh, co
missionary journey, uh, with,
with Paul is in your life.
And so they prophesied that over him,
or they spoke that over Timothy's life.
And so Paul is saying, Hey,
remember that these things were
spoke over your life, right?
It's I'm giving you this instruction
because it aligns with your.
Right.
It aligns with your call.
And so I still believe this happens today.
I always tell people this, the more and
more I get to know somebody, I think we
speak those truths over people's lives.
As we begin to see potential in life,
we see God lining some things up.
We begin to say, Hey, we
see this in your life.
And it's very similar to Laura.
She shared last week about
her call to ministry.
And it's something that's so
interesting when, when Laura says,
Hey, I really feel like God's
calling me to some form of ministry.
We're not sitting there
going, never saw it.
You know what we're saying?
We've been with Laura
for the last year now.
We're not surprised.
We actually have been kind of even
speaking that of her life, but
she just realized it for herself.
So whenever this prophecy prophecy
was spoken over Timothy, it still
took Timothy recognizing it.
And so what Paul's doing is Paul
saying, even though this was spoke
over, you still have to recognize it.
You still need to remember this.
It's powerful to it.
The call.
And so I still believe this happens today.
And so how do we know this?
And so there's a couple of things I just
want to share with you is one that God
has given every single person a gift.
So if you are alive today in breathing,
if you need to check your pulse, go ahead.
But God has given you a gift.
Now, the interesting thing with this
gift is that God gives us gifts not to.
But to give away.
So every one of us has a call and a gift
in our life to be used for God's glory.
Now this just isn't on a Sunday
morning, during a two hour spot.
Yes.
You can go greet people
because you're social.
You can be a coffee person cause
you love coffee or you can play an
instrument because you're gifted in that.
And those are parts of the gifts
that God gives us, but really the
gift is meant to be used after.
And the gift is meant to be
used for the body of Christ
and the benefit of each other.
And so we know that's true, right?
So we've been appointed by God to
fulfill also the purpose to go there
for and make disciples of all nations,
which means this in some form, the
gift that God's given you is mint.
Help other people know Jesus.
Right?
So that's, that's cool.
Cause we know that connection right.
To, to make disciples, to make sure
that people know Jesus personally.
And so this is not something that's
different from us because sometimes
we read these and we go, oh, there's
not been a prophecy made about.
Well, maybe somebody hasn't spoke
that over your life, but I would say
this though, that the word of God has
said that each one of us has a call
on our life or our gift on a call.
And it's the bigger part of
the body of Christ to fulfill.
And so we also have a
powerful call just like timid.
And I started thinking about
this a little bit last week.
And I think I shared this last
week, you see my role, the Bible
says my role is to equip the saints
for the work of the ministry.
And I made this statement.
So that means that all of us are
called to some form of ministry.
And most of us probably don't
like that idea, which, because
it's like, well, I'm not a pastor
and that's not what I'm saying.
Every one of us has a different role.
But if my role is to equip the saints,
that means every single time we meet here
on Sundays, I'm using the word of God.
To equip you were taking
it, weren't applying it.
We're looking here and we're
saying, well, Paul's giving Timothy
a charge to go use his, his call
and his gift for the glory of God.
So what are we going to do today?
We're going to go into the word of
God and we're going to look at it.
And it's going to challenge
us just like Paul.
We're gonna listen to Paul and we're
going to say, oh, we have a call.
That's powerful to go take the message
of the gospel, where we are in our
church and in our community to go
live it out for the glory of God.
And so that is encouraging to me.
Right?
And so just like Paul giving Timothy
and the instruction to fulfill his
call, he's also giving us the church
instruction to fulfill our calls.
And I wanna just kind of read this
to teach the truth and love to
share our testimonies, that point
people to Jesus, his love grace and
mercy into address false teaching.
That's contrary to the good news.
That's our same call as well.
It's the same thing that
Paul is speaking to us here.
And Josh, I'm so glad you showed
up because I started thinking
through this and this is something
challenge challenging to me.
I just started thinking through, right?
What does this look like in our.
And see, I get to spend time with
Josh mentoring, some young boys and
Josh, you're the one that's kind of
spearheaded this and got to go in.
And obviously you got some
teachers that are working with you.
And I started thinking through
this part of Josh's call is that he
builds, led to mentor young boys.
And I started thinking about this right
to mentor young boys into becoming
positive influences in the school, on
his city to teach the truth to these.
And to share how his life has been
changed, because he has begin to take in
truth and not write the false influences
of the world or false influences of
maybe kids in his, in their life.
Right.
And so he's there to help address
those false teachings that those
kids have been hearing that, Hey,
you don't need to accept this.
You need to accept that.
And so part of his role and
passion that I can see, this
is just my personal conviction.
Mentoring and is to be an influence
positively in these kids' lives and to
help them avoid the negative influences.
See, I just basically took a
little bit about what Timothy's
call is and place it over Josh's
life based upon what I've seen.
I think that's really cool when I
started thinking about that and that
just, again, you're not the only
person I think of, but that was just
something they just thought of me.
And I think that's really cool
when we begin to think about like,
the Bible does apply to our lives.
It doesn't just apply to
Timothy's life and it's just, oh,
that's what that was for them.
It applies to all of our lives.
And so you guys could probably
take that same thing right?
Where you have a passion for
something to make a change.
And as you begin to apply that you begin
to give your personal experiences, right?
So you're teaching truth.
You're giving personal
experiences, testimony.
And you're consistently pointing
people away from the Baltz teachings
or the faults waste to live.
That's all that we're talking about here.
And I just saw that all come together
and I think it's just encouraging
to know this applies to us.
Right?
So Timothy, in this short verse,
right in the short part of this verse
needed to be reminded that God had
prepared him and placed him right.
Where he needed to be to fill this call.
So now that Paul has told Timothy
why he gave him this charge, right.
Based upon his previously
calling that was placed upon him.
He now tells him where the power
to fill his call come from.
And you're going to be
amazed with this, right?
Where's the power come to fulfill his
calm, the power comes from fulfill or
something from remembering his calling.
And so we'll see this rest of the verse.
I'm going to read it all.
He says, Timothy, my son, I'm giving
you this instruction and keeping
with the prophecies previously
made about you so that by recalling
them, you may fight the good fight.
So by recalling the prophecies
made about you and the instruction
given to you, you may have the
power to fight the good fight.
There is power and remembering your call.
There is power in remembering your call.
Why?
Because God's the one that
placed that call in your life.
And if God placed that call on
your life, he will see it through.
So whenever you're discouraged, Whenever
you're struggling when you're ever
you're wondering if it will ever happen.
How can I ever do this, this task?
Go back to what I asked at the
beginning of this task is too big.
God, if you don't show up, that's
you remembering that if God placed
you here, God will give you the
ability to bring it through.
And that's what Paul
was reminding Timothy.
And so I started thinking
through this, right?
When life gets tough, we
have to remember our why.
That's what I think about that, that.
Behind our callings.
And I started thinking through
three things in my life of reasons,
why, and that helped me get through
some of the struggles of my life
or some difficult situations.
Number one, um, whenever I went
into college, I was not very smart.
Just so you guys know
I was not very smart.
I was behind on a lot of things.
Um, but I was determined my
why and finishing college
was to provide for my family.
Um, and so I made it through
four years of college.
I don't know.
I was not good at writing papers.
I was not good at a lot of things,
but I made it through college,
a four-year degree and I got it.
But my why is what got me
through my remembering, right?
My why got me through, through college.
What about marriage?
What happens when marriage gets tough?
Right.
I remember my why, because
at that day I committed to my
wife in sickness and in health.
Right or richer or sometimes poor.
Right?
Sometimes.
So you guys know just a funny thing in the
middle of middle of our Val exchange, um,
Brittany started crying on that part and
she said for richer or poor, and it was
hilarious because it's like, she didn't
mean to do that, but people were laughing.
So I think if I get poor, I'm a little
bit questionable on whether our marriage,
but, but we remember our why when marriage
gets tough, because here's what my
challenge is when I started writing this.
Because moments of struggle, don't
outweigh lifetimes of good y'all
know this majority of our marriages,
if you've been married for a
while, have a lot of good moments.
But the moments that typically
divide us are the small moments
where are insignificant.
When you look at the whole picture of the.
So my why, my remembering, why I
married my wife and why I still
love her to the end of this day.
Is that not the small
things that annoy me?
And so my why is important.
So then I started even thinking about
this, my why behind starting this
church, and I keep going back to this.
Do you know how easy it would have been
to give up planting this church two years?
In the middle of a pandemic, when we
wonder what the heck God you're doing.
And you would be surprised that
even there's wise, you know,
like why are we still doing this?
Because it's two years,
it comes into my mind.
But then I remember God called us.
And if God called us, God will provide
in his timing with his resources and his
people remembering our calling is power.
That's what Paul was reminding Timothy.
You have had prophecies made about you.
I've invested in you.
I believe in you don't give up.
Don't give up and we need to remember
that because there's going to be some
tough times in your life and your life.
God, you've called me to this marriage.
God, you've called me to the shop.
God, you've called me to this church.
God, you've called me to this moment
in my life and living my faith
out of my job or wherever it's
going to be this moment of crisis.
And you need to remember your war call
because if you remember your call by God
and you get a community around you that
encourages you in that call, you won't
give up because that's what God uses.
There is power and remembering our call
and that's exactly what Timothy was doing.
So we need you to remember again, That he
had been given a call by God, encouraged
important to by Paul and the profits.
And it wasn't time to give up.
And I love this.
I know we're not even into second Timothy,
but second Timothy one six through seven.
It's one of my, some of my favorite
verses it says this, this, this,
uh, this is Paul speaking to
Timothy Timothy fan into flame.
The gift that God has given you for God
has not given you a spirit of fear, but
a power and love and sound judgment.
Paul wrote a letter to
first him in there first.
I mean, he, he wrote one letter to
Timothy and he's encouraging Timothy
to remember his call, but Timothy still
needed encouragement in the second
letter from Paul to say, fan into
flame, the gift that God has given you.
And you guys know what fanning into
flame is, and this is what I love.
This is that they had this, uh,
small group on Wednesday night.
We didn't end up getting to go to the
small group at Brock and Jenna's house.
Um, but there was what was
the log was not on fire.
You give me the story.
I'm going to have you shared this story.
Absolutely.
So what did Paul do?
Paul put the blocks back
together again for Timothy.
And he said fan into flame.
The gift that God's given you remember.
And he says, God, and this is
what I love too many times.
We remember all the things that
God gives us, but sometimes I
quote what God doesn't give us.
Right.
And this is where we talk about
addressing false teachers.
God, doesn't give that to us.
Right?
There are certain things that false
teachers tell us, no, God hasn't given
us that well, this is what I love quoting
that God doesn't give us a spirit of fear.
He does not give us a spirit of fear,
but of love and some more stuff that
I just wrote down, power and sound.
And so I have to remember that at
times, whenever fear comes into
my life, Nope, God hasn't given
me that I'm not picking it up.
I'm not picking it up.
So there is power and remembering, right.
There's power and remembering our
calling because it will give you
again, the power and confidence in
the ability to fight the good fight.
This is what I love here.
He says, um, so that, you
know, by recalling that you
may fight the good fight.
Anybody ever fought a bad fight,
like when you shouldn't have got into
and like, oh man, that's not worth.
Anybody ever got in a fight by
the time you get done with it, you
forgot why you started the fight.
That's fighting the wrong fight, but the
fight that Paul's challenging Timothy to
fight is the good fight, the good fight.
It was a mining us in him that, that this
good fight that we're fighting is a battle
that will bring so many things, right.
Live change, salvation,
transforming power, and love.
Unspeakable, joy, peace.
Not only into our lives.
This is the part where
I'm challenging you.
The call on your life is not just for
you, but it's for those around you that
have experienced those same things, right?
These are the things we're
fighting for others to experience.
In our city, our
neighborhoods in our homes.
So I'm going to say it again.
We're fighting this good fight.
We're remembering our call.
We're not backing down so that
others can experience live, change,
salvation, transforming power, and
love, unspeakable, joy, peace, hope
patients, relationships, encouragement.
I'll tell you this guys.
Why do I not give up when it gets tough?
Because I want someone else to experience
the relationship that I have with.
I am so changed by what God's done for
me, that it drives me to continue to come
here every week to continue to make phone
calls, to continue to go to people's
houses, to continue to just listen and
to continue to love on people in the city
now, because I want something from them.
I want something for them.
I'll say that again.
I don't know the times I've
told teachers this judge.
I think I've told you this.
I don't want anything from you.
I want something for you.
Why because that's what
Jesus came to do to give.
I want to be like Jesus.
And so I have to remember over and over
again, whenever things are difficult.
My why my calling God has called me here
to make a difference to change lives.
And that's what he had to challenge
Timothy to do, because here's the
thing Timothy's about to walk in to
some people that are intimidating.
And I don't know about you
guys, anybody here are people.
I struggle with that.
Like, I want to make people happy,
but sometimes you still got to speak
truth and not everybody's going
to like you and that's difficult.
And so there's power
and remembering, right?
Paul said to Timothy, remember your
call, write your why so that you
may encourage an Ambien power to
not give up and continue to fight
for what is good so that others can
experience what you've experienced.
But then Paul tells Timothy, this,
this is how you should fight.
So if you're going to go into a battle,
you're going to go into a fight.
We're going to fight the good fight.
How do you fight?
And he shares two ways and
he says this in verse 19.
And the first part of it, he says
having faith and a good conscience.
What are those two things?
And I just started asking myself this
question, will those, those are good.
What do they mean?
And so having faith, so to have,
is to, to put on or to hold close.
And so I think of this, like to have
something like I have clothes on,
that's logical right there, close to me.
I don't let it go.
So having faith means we
keep what God has taught us.
The truths that God has taught us.
We keep them close to us.
Right?
The conviction of the truth of Jesus.
But then we also have this where he talks
about, um, uh, this good conscience.
And so when we think about a good
conscience, a conscience is the inner
voice that the soon distinguishes
between what is morally good and morally.
And so a good conscience is more
than just proclaiming faith with our
lips and saying, I know what's right.
So I'm going to proclaim this
truth, but it's saying not only
saying these right things, but it's
practicing these things as well.
So these are two ways that
we fight to have that.
Close to us.
Our faith is what we believe God
for what we believe in God with.
We keep that close to us, but
we also keep a good conscience.
One that is a check in our spirit
of what is right and what is wrong.
And we actually listened to it.
And I, and I say this
to say, this I'm a warn.
Whereas we actually shared
this story that made me just
challenge with this statement.
He said this, he said someone once
told him about his, their pastor.
He said, my pastor is such a good point.
He should never leave the pulpit,
but he's such a poor Christian.
He should never get in the pulpit.
Here's what he was saying
was sometimes our conscience.
We know that what we're living is
wrong, but we, we want to be right.
So we just share what's right.
But we don't live.
Right.
So a good conscience is actually saying
and doing the right thing, not saying one
thing and doing the other thing  know.
No, this is, I remember as a kid,
my friend called me a hypocrite.
And I didn't know what that meant.
That was too big of a word for me.
I'm like, no, I'm not, I
didn't know what it meant.
Basically.
It's saying one thing
and doing the opposite.
And so that's what Paul's saying is like,
he's saying that, how do you win this
battle is by having that faith and keeping
it close and keeping a good conscience.
So I'll say it this way.
Basically what Paul is telling Timothy
is the way to be successful at your
calling is to believe that God believe
in God, with all your heart, with
all your mind and with all your soul
and live a life that reflects that.
And he's basically saying this
don't let the false teachers bully
you into, outside of living your,
in your, inside your conviction.
So Timothy is being approached
with false teaching.
We already know Timothy is a little
bit timid because here's what
Paul said is he said, don't leave.
You know, if we remember back here in
verse three, Paul says, I urged you when
I was in Macedonia to remain an emphasis.
Timothy was already wanting to
kind of leave the situation.
So Paul is saying, no,
no, don't, don't be.
Don't leave.
Number one, number two, these false
teachers don't give in because
what Timothy could have done.
So we know a good conscience that
would have been a poor conscience.
He would have said one thing, which
wouldn't have been truth, and he would
have lived a separate one because
of the false teachers influence.
So Paul's saying don't do it,
match him up, say it, speak
truth and live with truth.
Live with a good conscience.
And again, we talked about that
idea behind people pleasing.
And I think that's where Paul was getting
at is sometimes as Christians, we say
the right things around our Christian,
Finn friends, and we live a separate
way runner non-Christian friends,
because we don't have a good conscience.
We don't have the ability to overcome
the people pleasing side of things.
And so, you know, I struggle with those
same things that people pleasing and as
the things I have to ask God to be bold
in my faith and to not give in on this.
And so sometimes we catch
ourselves bypassing our
convictions to be accepted, right.
We don't like controversy,
so we avoid it altogether.
But we have to remember our calling,
which will empower us to live a life
reflective of our, of our inward faith.
And so here's what happens.
This is the reason why Paul
says you need to go into these
battles with a good faith, right.
Uh, having faith in a good company.
And he says, the reason why is because
those who forget their calling, those
who do not follow this wreck their faith.
So what happens when we forget our
calling, it says this, he says some
have rejected these, um, these and have
shipwrecked their faith among them are
Hymenaeus and Alexander, whom I delivered
to Satan so that they may be taught not
to blast him by the way your husband, I
think, went outside and the doors locked.
So he may not give up.
Okay.
Good.
Just want to make sure you knew that.
Okay.
Um, so he says this, sorry, that's a
off, no, I'm like processing things
up here, so I just want to make sure
he doesn't get stuck on the cold.
Um, so we ship wreck our faith, right?
If we forget our calling, if
we forget our why our faith is
shipwrecked, what does shipwreck mean?
It means going off course or missing the
mark or it's causing a mess in her life.
So how many all know being
shipwrecked would not be a good thing?
If you were on a cruise.
And you got shipwrecked, how
many all would be excited?
Anybody.
So it's not a good thing.
Although you may get a couple extra
days on the cruise ship and you may
like the music and whatever, but
eventually food's going to run out.
So being stripped,
shipwrecked is not good.
Right?
So believers who shipwreck their faith
are the ones who forget they're called.
Right.
They forget their call, their
why, and they begin to sin
against their conscience.
Right.
They begin to say, uh, even
though I think that's wrong,
I'm just going to push past it.
Right.
They, they really go past their
moral compass that's in there.
And we begin to realize that they begin
to believe, and this is where we start
moving off into this false teaching.
We begin to believe these things after
we live them consistently wrong, right.
Going against our moral.
And we begin to just have these wrong
beliefs and so wrong beliefs, usually stem
from wrong living, which causes us to want
to hide our sin or justify it in some way.
And so Paul is trying to protect Timothy.
Don't become these people who
have shipwrecked their faith.
It's not good.
I don't want to be shipwrecked.
And so warning sign, warning signs.
And the only way you will not
ship wreck your faith is if
you have that faith, right.
And if you have that good conscience,
and if you remember your calling and
all the prophecy spoke over you, right.
And all the encouragement from
the community around you, you
need to remember these things.
You need to hold tight and fast to your
faith so that you do not ship wreck it.
And so he ends up
pointing out a couple of.
Um, and you know, he points out a couple
of these people, and this is the reason
why I think about this is this not to
dislike, be a jerk and like post some
names up here of people each week that
are, you know, shipwrecking their faith.
He's doing it because he's wanting
Timothy to be aware of who it is.
But there there's a reason behind,
I'm gonna kinda mention this
number one shipwreck in your
faith doesn't happen overnight.
Anybody ever been to the beach, anybody,
anybody ever set up their tent, put
their stuff down, went and played.
Five minutes later, you look up
and you can't find your stuff.
All of a sudden out of nowhere,
you didn't even feel it.
You didn't even see it.
You begin to drift down the
beach, see shipwreck and your
faith doesn't happen overnight.
It happens one wrong decision at a
time, one justified decision at a time.
One, you know, area of your life that
you don't have accountability in.
And all of a sudden you drift down
the way and you begin to justify
and justify and justify an all of a
sudden you've shipwrecked your faith.
So Paul saying like, don't
even get to that point where
you're drifting, hold strong.
But as we begin to think about
this, he mentions these two
guys and I love these names.
Hymenaeus I'm going to name my next child.
And Alexander, right.
And he says I've delivered them to Satan.
That sounds so horrible.
Let me break this down for you.
So I began to look at it and
I'm like, man, I would hate
to be delivered to Satan.
Anybody else?
That sounds really bad.
Well, if you know enough about Paul Paul
actually taught on church discipline.
And so I get an opportunity to talk
about what church discipline is.
You'll hear that in a
negative context than church.
Well, there, we have to do
church discipline today.
Well, that's not something one that
anybody wants to do, but church discipline
is actually all about restaurants.
Right.
So it's somebody that's within the church
that is living contrary to the gospel.
Right.
And there's a way to handle it.
So here's how Paul's taught us to
handle this is if you see somebody
that is living contrary to the
gospel, that's in the church, you
go to them individually, right?
You're not bringing it before the church.
You go to them individually and
you talk to them and you say, Hey,
I'm just, there's a little area.
Again.
You had a good relationship cause
you're in the church, right?
Hey, there's an error.
Um, I would say there's
maybe something wrong here.
Let's talk through this.
How can I help if that doesn't
work, where they don't want to
repent and turn from it, they don't
believe that you bring two or three
friends with you go to that person.
You sit down with them and you talk
about, Hey, there's an area of your life
that is not lining up with the gospel.
And we really concerned, how can we help?
We want to be there.
And if that person doesn't
see it doesn't want to repent.
Then typically you bring
them before the whole church.
And then the whole church says,
Hey, we love you too much to
let you continue on sending.
And if that doesn't work, which
means this person says, I don't,
I want to continue on incenting.
I want to continue on
shipwrecking my faith.
Here's what the church does.
Then you're going to have
to do that somewhere else.
Why here's the question I
want to ask you this question.
Why would you ever ask somebody to leave
the church after those three things?
Because don't, we want to keep
them around to love on them.
If you keep them around,
what are they going to.
Somebody answered this for me.
I haven't asked enough questions today.
If you keep somebody around the shipwreck,
their faith, that you've done, all these
things to help them restore their faith.
What are they doing?
Influencing others.
What were these false
teachers being accused of?
They were drawing people away from the.
He even mentioned this at the end,
he says that they were blaspheming,
which means they were rejecting
Christ and they were pushing the law.
So imagine somebody in this church come
into church after I get him preaching,
walking around to all y'all trying to say,
Christ is in the way, go back to the law.
Well, again, we're thinking
about church discipline.
If that ever happened individually,
somebody would go to them.
The new would bring a couple people.
So there will be a process of
trying to restore this person.
Hey, that's not okay.
And you know, you're not sitting
here trying to ring them out.
You're also not trying
to give up on it, but.
Leaving them in the church is hurting.
The church has drawn
people away from the faith.
So you're hoping by moving them
away from the community, that
does show that support that Satan.
Again, we say Satan, but really
when you get them away from the
church, it's really allowing them to
understand they're missing something.
Your hope is that that they will
come back and say, you know what?
I was wrong.
I missed this community.
I missed the people that were
wanting to help and encourage me.
So I say all that to say, Paul was
not saying, Hey, I hope you got.
So, you know that that's not his goal.
His hope is that as you look
at this as this, so they may
be taught not to blaspheme.
His hope is there's a lesson and
kicking them out of the church.
And so I looked at this originally going,
man, I don't like this, but I started
realizing, you know, and again, I go
back to being a principal is not fun.
When you have to kick a kid
out of school for a couple.
Why because they're not getting it there.
They're treating teachers wrong or
they're, they're beating up students
and, and you're going, man, wouldn't it
be better if they were in school, will
know they're not going to learn a lesson.
So your goal is that
there's a lesson in this.
And that was Paul's thing is saying this.
We see two people who miss the mark
through restoration and falling off the
wagon and shipwreck and their faith.
Timothy, I don't want
you to experience that.
Remember your call?
Timothy.
I don't want anybody else in the church to
experience that preach about remembering
the call, clean to pure faith, a faith,
having faith clean to these things, right.
A good conscience so that you
may not ship wreck your faith.
These are all warnings
to us as a church, right?
Not that these two guys are
just the enemy because they're
not, they were in the church.
These two people are dearly
loved church members that Paul's
saying I want to do anything.
I can, that they will be taught
not to blast fame, reject Christ.
He's actually wanting to restore them.
So this teaches all of us today.
As we look at this right,
a lesson, we all agree.
We don't want to be
shipwrecked in our faith.
Amen.
I mean, I hope you don't after all.
If you do, I need to re preach
the message, but you don't want
to be shipwrecked in your faith.
Well, how do we not
shipwrecked in our faith?
Remember our call.
That's how I want you to
just remember our call.
God has sent his son Jesus to
this earth so that everybody,
everybody may know that.
Number one, just so you know,
the number one call in your life
has have a personal relationship.
And out of the overflow of that personal
relationship, you go live out your
life, wherever God's placed you in
your job, your home, your activities.
And you begin to share the hope of the
gospel with other people so that they
may experience a personal issue with God.
That's the simplicity of
the call in our lives.
So as Paul closes this first chapter
in Timothy, he felt the need to
remind Timothy of his call, right?
In order to give him confidence
and following the instruction that
Paul had given him, he was telling
Timothy there's power in your calling
to encourage you to fulfill the
things God has prepared you to do.
And the same text is encouraging
us in those same things.
To remember our call in our lives, to
give us a clear conscience and faith
to win the battle to not ship record.
Because on the other side of shipwreck
is separation where none of us
want to be right from the church.
And so as we go into limitation, I'm just
going to kind of quickly lead into this.
I'm hoping my hope is that through this
message and kind of summarize in the first
chapter that you all are kind of learning
a little bit more of the importance,
one of God's word, but also why I asked
this question, Lord, why did you lead
us to get in the book of first Timothy?
I believe that God is preparing
all of us as we continue to move
forward in our faith, um, to
clean to the truths of the gospel.
And, and I'm always challenging.
Timothy would have no clue what the truths
of the gospel were without knowing Jesus
and without knowing him in a daily walk.
And I was taught that daily walk.
What does that mean?
It means the greatest way to get to
know God is subsequent time with him.
And to study it just like we're
setting it here just to walk
through it and look at things and
practically apply them in our life.
The only way that we'll get to know
Jesus more is not only learning these
things, but beginning to apply them
to our lives and living them out.
So what Timothy is teaching us
what Paul is teaching us is this,
that in order to be able to read.
False lies to be able to reject the
things that the false teachers are
teaching in our world that are trying
to pull us away from who Christ is.
And the pull us away from what we
talk about, these false teachers,
they were trying to create anger and
dissension and disunity Christ is
trying to teach us love and hope and
joy and unity and family and community.
So we need to reject those things
by knowing Jesus more greatest way.
You can know Jesus more so that
personal issue, the second way you
can know Jesus more is doing life.
Doing life with one another.
So I I've challenged you before
and I'll continue to challenge you.
If you're not part of a group during the
week, we have two groups currently that
meet once a week called inspire groups.
The goal is to build more community,
which means we, we usually meet once
a month, we eat a meal, we hang out,
we talk, we get to know each other.
We take the message that we,
we talked about on Sunday.
And we sit around in a circle
and we say, Hey, what does this
look like to follow in your life?
And I'm not the only one talking
by the way, actually all y'all.
And it's an opportunity to just say,
Hey, how does this apply to your life?
And what's this look like here?
And we encourage one another
and we pray for one another
and we build each other up.
Right?
And so that's another way to follow
Christ to grow your relationship,
to help you not shipwreck your face.
And there's more to that, right?
As we continue to grow in our community.
So today during our invitation, invitation
is always an opportunity to say, God,
I heard something from your word.
Lord applied to my life.
It's an opportunity for you to
just close your eyes and just pray.
And if you don't know how to pray, do you
know praying is just as simple as talking
to a friend, cause God is that close.
And so you can just pray and say,
Lord, whatever you spoke to me this
morning, Lord, help me cling to it.
And for some of you that could just
be, I need to give my life to you.
Maybe you just need to
give your life to Jesus.
And if that's you, please come to us.
Th that's something we celebrate,
you know, that the Bible says
that there is angels in heaven
that are throwing a party.
Basically they're celebrating over
one sinner who repents one sinner
in that cool angels in heaven.
I want to be a part of that party.
And I remember the Sunday night that
I gave my life to Christ and until
my pastor, and that was the, well, my
pastor told me, I'm like really cool.
Like, I didn't know, God
cared about me that much.
And I began to learn over the years
that God cares more than even that.
So maybe today's the day for
you to give your life to Christ.
And if it is please come talk.
We celebrate those things.
Um, and we'll have a conversation,
maybe it's for you to just
get your life back on track.
Maybe you have been drifting.
You haven't shipwreck your faith
yet, but it's getting there and
you're going to get out of the water.
You're gonna move back up the beach
and you're going to get back in, right?
Maybe that's you.
So today, you know what that's called?
It's called repentance Lord.
Forgive me.
Lord helped me overcome the.
And if you need to pray with me just to
kind of help you walk through that, I'm
going to walk through that with you.
If you're trying to figure out
how to get out of the water, I
can pull you out of the water.
I can walk alongside you.
There's other people in this room
that want to walk alongside you to
help you get back to your place.
That's why we're here.
I don't know if that's where it is.
And I don't know if maybe you're
listening to this message going.
Amen.
And you're just telling the Lord amen.
And your prayer.
I don't know.
That's that's between you and.
But if there's any way that I can
help you any way that I can talk
to you about a relationship, Jesus.
Anyway, I can help you get
to connect to the community.
Please, please, please come talk
to me because I can't wait to share
with you until to walk alongside
whatever God's leading you to do.
But my challenge, my
last statement I'm done.
I promise I'm done.
The last thing that you may be asking
you heard today is man, there's power
my calling, but I'm still trying to
figure out what my calling my purpose is.
Great.
We're all walking in the season,
still trying to figure that out.
That's another thing that I would love
to talk to you about, because then we'll
start putting pieces together about where
God's placed you and how God's gifted you.
And we'll begin to discover
your purpose to help other
people discover hope in Jesus.
Amen.
So we're going to pray and after we
pray, um, Matt's gonna play soccer
for a little bit for you guys to
just process that with God and ask
God how you can take your next.
I'll be back there in the back.
Come talk to me and then we'll end
our day, um, worshiping together.
Amen.
All right.
Let's pray, Lord Jesus.
We thank you Lord.
For today.
We thank you for this message.
Lord, just to remind each one of us, how
important remembering our call is Lord,
because there is power in our calling.
Lord.
If there's a person in this room,
that's struggling to even know.
What it is to have a calling, or maybe
it's through a personal relationship
with you, Lord, I pray that they
come and talk to me and they say,
Hey, I just have questions about
what it means to give my life to you.
And so Lord, I pray that that
person takes that step Lord.
I pray if there's a person in this
room or multiple people in this room
that are just saying, Hey, I want to
know more about my call, my call to
follow you or to call to live their
lives out for you Lord somewhere.
I just pray that they come back.
And again, just, just ask for guidance
and Lord I'll just continue to point
them to your word and walk alongside.
The Lord, whatever you're challenging
each person in this room to do, Lord,
I pray that you, you, you caused
them to choose today because too
many times, Lord, I think we, we say,
well, next week and the next week
comes and we'll say, well, next week.
But Lord today is the day of salvation.
Today is the day to take
the next right step Lord.
That next right step will
produce huge results.
Every time that we take step after
step, because God, you have exceedingly
abundantly more than we can ask.
And so Lord, I just pray that
you do what you do, Lord.
I don't even need to pray anymore
because you know, as the Lord, I
just pray this in your heavenly name.
Amen.